=pod

=head1 NAME

B<julian> - convert Julian dates to & from calendar dates

=head1 SYNOPSIS

B<julian> [B<-O> | B<-o>] [B<-jv>] [I<date> ...]

B<julian> B<-V>

=head1 DESCRIPTION

When not passed any arguments on the command line, B<julian> outputs the
current Julian date (the number of days since noon UTC on 4713 BC Jan 1) and
exits.

When passed one or more arguments, B<julian> converts each calendar date on the
command line to a Julian date and each Julian date to a calendar date,
outputting the results.

Julian dates are read & output as base-10 numbers with optional fractional
parts.

Calendar dates are read & output in a subset of ISO 8601 format: a
C<YYYY-MM-DD> string (with an optional C<+> or C<-> prepended to the year)
specifying a day, optionally followed by C<T> and a C<hh:mm:ss> string
specifying a time in UTC; any further characters are ignored.  (A C<Z> is also
appended to time values on output to make the use of UTC explicit, but this is
not required on input.)  The day may alternatively be specified as C<YYYY-DDD>,
where the second component is the day of the year from 001 to 366.  In both
forms, a year value of 0 corresponds to 1 BC, a year value of -1 corresponds to
2 BC, and so forth.

This program uses 1582 Oct 5/15 (JD 2299161) as the date of the Gregorian
Reformation when handling calendar dates.  All dates before this point use the
(proleptic) Julian calendar, and all dates on or after use the Gregorian.  An
input date in the range 1582 Oct 5-14 is assumed to still be on the Julian
calendar.  January 1 is always used as the start of the year.

=head1 OPTIONS

=over

=item B<-j>

Calendar dates will be output in the form C<YYYY-DDD>, where the latter
component is the day of the year from 001 to 366.

=item B<-O>

All calendar dates after the Gregorian Reformation of 1582 will have the
corresponding "Old Style" (Julian calendar) date appended to their output in
brackets.

=item B<-o>

Calendar dates between the Gregorian Reformation of 1582 and the UK's adoption
of the Gregorian reforms in 1752 will have the corresponding "Old Style"
(Julian calendar) date appended to their output in brackets.

=item B<-V>

Display version information and exit

=item B<-v>

Be verbose, i.e., print out the input date and C< = > before each respective
output date.

=back

=head1 AUTHOR

John T. Wodder II <jwodder@sdf.lonestar.org>

=head1 SEE ALSO

L<https://github.com/jwodder/julian>

L<https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Julian_day>

=cut
